error message.
A kernel problem occurred, but your kernel has been tainted (flags:GW). Explanation:W - Taint on warning.Kernel maintainers are unable to diagnose tainted reports.



Determining the taint status of a running kernel.

The taint status of a running kernel can be determined by running

cat /proc/sys/kernel/tainted

When the output is 0, the kernel is not tainted, when the output is non-zero, the kernel is tainted.

The value will be a combined number of all applying kernel taint flags added (ORed) together. You can find a list of currently used kernel flags under:

/usr/src/linux/Documentation/sysctl/kernel.txt


fedora 37 kernel is tainted. the output of /proc/sys/kernel/tainted is 512

A kernel is considered "tainted" if any non-GPL compatible module has been loaded into the kernel. The value of 512 indicates that the kernel has been tainted due to the use of a proprietary module.

In the case of Fedora 37, the most common reason for a tainted kernel is the use of proprietary graphics drivers. These drivers are not open source and are not licensed under the GPL, which is the license used by the Linux kernel.

If you want to remove the tainted status from your kernel, you will need to unload any proprietary drivers that you have installed. This may mean switching to an open-source graphics driver or finding an open-source alternative to any other proprietary drivers that you have installed.

Keep in mind that running a tainted kernel can have implications for support and debugging. Some developers may not provide support for a tainted kernel, and certain system logs may not be available due to potential legal issues with the use of proprietary modules.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
how can i find out the if proprietry drivers are installed

There are several ways to check if proprietary drivers are installed on your system. Here are a few methods you can use:

    Check the output of the "lsmod" command: This command shows a list of all the modules that are currently loaded into the kernel. If any proprietary modules are loaded, they will be listed here. You can run the following command to see the list of loaded modules:

css

lsmod | grep -i proprietary

    Check the output of the "lspci" command: This command shows information about all the PCI devices in your system, including the graphics card. If your graphics card is using a proprietary driver, it will be listed in the output of this command. You can run the following command to see the list of PCI devices:

css

lspci | grep -i vga

    Check the output of the "glxinfo" command: This command shows information about your graphics driver and OpenGL implementation. If you have a proprietary graphics driver installed, it will be listed in the output of this command. You can run the following command to see the output of glxinfo:

css

glxinfo | grep -i vendor

If any of these commands show that proprietary drivers are installed, you may need to remove them to remove the tainted status from your kernel. Note that the specific commands and output may vary depending on your system configuration and the drivers installed.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Iris Plus Graphics G7 (rev 07) herer is the output

The output you provided is from the "lspci" command and shows information about your system's graphics controller. Specifically, it shows that you have an Intel Corporation Iris Plus Graphics G7 controller with revision 07.

This graphics controller is part of the Intel CPU and is supported by the open-source i915 driver in the Linux kernel. This means that the driver for this graphics controller is not proprietary and is licensed under the GPL, which is the license used by the Linux kernel.

Based on this information, it is unlikely that your kernel is tainted due to a proprietary graphics driver. However, there may be other proprietary drivers or modules loaded that are causing the kernel to be tainted. You can check the output of the "lsmod" command to see a list of all the modules that are currently loaded into the kernel and look for any proprietary modules that may be causing the issue.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
how does propritary modules look like

Proprietary modules can take different forms, but generally, they are software components that are not distributed under an open-source license and may have restrictions on their use, modification, and distribution. In the context of a Linux system, a proprietary module typically refers to a binary-only kernel module that is loaded into the Linux kernel to provide support for a specific hardware device or software feature.

Proprietary modules often have file names that are specific to the device or software they support and are usually located in a directory that is separate from the open-source kernel code. Some common examples of proprietary modules that may be loaded into the Linux kernel include:

    Graphics drivers from NVIDIA, AMD, or Intel (in some cases)
    Wireless network drivers for some devices
    RAID and storage controller drivers for some hardware
    Some printer drivers

If you suspect that a proprietary module is causing the kernel to be tainted, you can check the output of the "lsmod" command to see a list of all the modules that are currently loaded into the kernel. Look for any modules that have file names or descriptions that suggest they are proprietary or have restrictions on their use or distribution. If you find any such modules, you may need to remove them to remove the tainted status from your kernel.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
there are no propritery modules

If you have checked the output of the "lsmod" command and found no proprietary modules loaded, it is unlikely that proprietary drivers are causing the kernel to be tainted. In this case, you may want to investigate other potential causes of the taint status, such as:

    Running a custom kernel that has been modified in some way
    Using third-party kernel modules that are not part of the official Linux kernel distribution
    Running software that interacts with the kernel in a non-standard way or violates kernel APIs

You can check the kernel logs to see if there are any messages that provide more information about the reason for the taint status. The logs can be found in the "/var/log" directory on most Linux systems, and the kernel logs are usually located in the "dmesg" or "messages" files.

If you are still unsure about the cause of the taint status or need further assistance, you may want to consult with the support resources for your specific Linux distribution or seek help from a knowledgeable Linux administrator or support professional.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
how then do i solve the tainted kernel issue

The approach to solving a tainted kernel issue depends on the reason why the kernel is tainted. In general, the taint status is a warning that some part of the system is not behaving as expected or is using non-standard components or configurations. Here are some general steps you can take to try to resolve the tainted kernel issue:

    Check the kernel logs: The kernel logs can provide information about the reason for the taint status. Look for any error messages, warnings, or other indications of system or hardware problems. If you find any specific issues, try to resolve them by fixing the underlying problem.

    Remove any proprietary modules: If the kernel is tainted due to the use of proprietary modules, you may need to remove them from the system. This can be done by uninstalling any proprietary drivers or kernel modules that are not licensed under an open-source license. If you need to use proprietary drivers, try to find open-source alternatives or work with the vendor to ensure that the proprietary modules are compatible with your system.

    Check the system configuration: The taint status can be caused by non-standard system configurations or third-party software that interacts with the kernel in unexpected ways. Try to identify any non-standard configurations or software components that may be causing the issue and consider removing or replacing them.

    Use a standard kernel: If you are using a custom or modified kernel, try switching to a standard kernel provided by your Linux distribution. This can help to eliminate any issues caused by non-standard kernel configurations or modifications.

    Seek help from support resources: If you are still unable to resolve the tainted kernel issue, seek help from the support resources for your Linux distribution or consult with a knowledgeable Linux administrator or support professional. They may be able to provide more specific guidance or help you identify and fix the underlying problem.

nchembonuh67@gmail.com
how do i check kernel logs

You can check the kernel logs on a Linux system by using the dmesg command or by examining the system log files in the /var/log directory. Here's how to check the kernel logs using the dmesg command:

    Open a terminal window on your Linux system.

    Type the following command and press Enter:

dmesg

This will display the kernel log messages from the current boot session. You can use the -T option to display the timestamps of the log messages in a human-readable format.

You can scroll through the log messages to look for any errors or warnings related to the taint status. The taint status is indicated by a number in the /proc/sys/kernel/tainted file, and you can use the grep command to filter the log messages for this number. For example, to display all log messages with a taint status of 512, you can use the following command:

perl

    dmesg | grep "Tainted: P         W  O    "

    This will display only the log messages that have a taint status of 512.

Alternatively, you can examine the system log files in the /var/log directory to look for kernel log messages. The kernel log messages are usually stored in the messages or syslog files. You can use a text editor or a command-line tool such as less or grep to examine these files. For example, to display all log messages with a taint status of 512 from the messages file, you can use the following command:

perl

sudo grep "Tainted: P         W  O    " /var/log/messages

This will display only the log messages that have a taint status of 512 from the messages file. Note that you may need to use sudo to run this command with root privileges, depending on your system configuration.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
my system is using journalctl  instead

If your Linux system is using journalctl instead of traditional log files, you can use it to view the kernel logs and search for messages related to the taint status. Here's how to do it:

    Open a terminal window on your Linux system.

    Type the following command and press Enter to view the entire kernel log:

journalctl -k

This will display the kernel log messages in reverse chronological order. You can use the -b option to view the kernel log for a specific boot session. For example, to view the kernel log for the previous boot session, you can use the following command:

css

journalctl -b -1 -k

You can search for messages related to the taint status by using the -f option to follow the log messages in real-time and the -o option to specify the output format. For example, to display all log messages with a taint status of 512 in real-time, you can use the following command:

perl

    journalctl -f -o verbose | grep "Tainted: P         W  O    "

    This will display only the log messages that have a taint status of 512.

Note that you may need to use sudo to run these commands with root privileges, depending on your system configuration. Additionally, journalctl may store logs in a compressed format, so you may need to use additional options or tools to extract and view the logs.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
x86/cpu: SGX disabled by BIOS.

The message "x86/cpu: SGX disabled by BIOS" in the kernel logs indicates that the Intel Software Guard Extensions (SGX) feature has been disabled in the BIOS settings of your system. SGX is a hardware-based security feature that provides a secure enclave for executing code with restricted access to system resources.

Disabling SGX in the BIOS may be a deliberate security measure by the system administrator or manufacturer, or it may be due to a compatibility issue or a misconfiguration. You can check the BIOS settings of your system to verify the SGX configuration and make any necessary changes. Here's how to do it:

    Restart your computer and enter the BIOS settings. The key to enter the BIOS settings may vary depending on your system, but it is usually displayed on the screen during bootup. Common keys are F2, F10, and Delete.

    Navigate to the "Security" or "Advanced CPU Configuration" section of the BIOS settings.

    Look for an option related to SGX, such as "Intel SGX", "Software Guard Extensions", or "Intel TXT". The option may be located under a submenu or a subcategory.

    If the option is present, make sure it is enabled. The exact configuration may vary depending on your system, but it is usually a simple "Enabled" or "Disabled" option.

    Save the BIOS settings and exit. The system will restart with the new configuration.

If the SGX option is not present in the BIOS settings, it may indicate that your system does not support SGX or that it has been disabled permanently by the system manufacturer. In this case, you can ignore the "SGX disabled by BIOS" message in the kernel logs.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
MMIO Stale Data CPU bug present and SMT on, data leak possible. See https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/admin-guide/hw-vuln/processor_mmio_stale_data.html for more details.

The message "MMIO Stale Data CPU bug present and SMT on, data leak possible" in the kernel logs indicates that your system is vulnerable to a security bug that affects certain CPUs when running with simultaneous multithreading (SMT) enabled. This bug can cause stale data from memory-mapped I/O (MMIO) operations to be leaked between CPU threads, potentially allowing an attacker to read sensitive data.

The recommended solution is to disable SMT in the BIOS settings of your system. Disabling SMT will prevent the bug from being exploited, but may reduce the performance of multithreaded applications. Note that disabling SMT will require a system reboot and may require changes to the BIOS settings of your system. Here's how to do it:

    Restart your computer and enter the BIOS settings. The key to enter the BIOS settings may vary depending on your system, but it is usually displayed on the screen during bootup. Common keys are F2, F10, and Delete.

    Navigate to the "Advanced CPU Configuration" section of the BIOS settings.

    Look for an option related to SMT, such as "Simultaneous Multithreading", "Hyper-Threading", or "Multi-Threaded Core". The option may be located under a submenu or a subcategory.

    If the option is present, disable it. The exact configuration may vary depending on your system, but it is usually a simple "Enabled" or "Disabled" option.

    Save the BIOS settings and exit. The system will restart with SMT disabled.

If the SMT option is not present in the BIOS settings, it may indicate that your system does not support SMT or that it has been disabled permanently by the system manufacturer. In this case, you can ignore the "MMIO Stale Data CPU bug present and SMT on, data leak possible" message in the kernel logs.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
pci 0000:00:07.0: DPC: RP PIO log size 0 is invalid

The message "pci 0000:00:07.0: DPC: RP PIO log size 0 is invalid" in the kernel logs indicates that there is an issue with the error reporting mechanism for a PCI device on your system. Specifically, the message indicates that the Root Port (RP) for the device has an invalid log size for the Port-Implemented Error (PIO) mechanism.

The PIO mechanism is used to report errors on PCI devices that are detected by the Root Port. The log size specifies the maximum number of error events that can be stored in the log before it is cleared. An invalid log size can indicate a hardware issue or a driver issue.

To troubleshoot this issue, you can try the following steps:

    Check for any firmware or BIOS updates for your system. Firmware updates can sometimes fix hardware-related issues with PCI devices.

    Check for any driver updates for the affected device. Driver updates can sometimes fix driver-related issues with PCI devices.

    Try disabling and re-enabling the affected device. This can sometimes reset the error reporting mechanism and fix the issue.

    If the issue persists, try removing and re-installing the affected device. This can sometimes re-initialize the PCI bus and fix the issue.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, it may indicate a hardware problem with the device or the Root Port. In this case, you may need to contact the system manufacturer or a hardware technician for further assistance.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
device-mapper: core: CONFIG_IMA_DISABLE_HTABLE is disabled. Duplicate IMA measurements will not be recorded in the IMA log.

The message "device-mapper: core: CONFIG_IMA_DISABLE_HTABLE is disabled. Duplicate IMA measurements will not be recorded in the IMA log" in the kernel logs indicates that the device-mapper core has detected that the CONFIG_IMA_DISABLE_HTABLE configuration option is disabled.

IMA stands for Integrity Measurement Architecture, and it is a Linux kernel security feature that provides support for verifying the integrity of files and data. When IMA is enabled, it creates a log of integrity measurements that can be used to detect unauthorized changes to the system.

The CONFIG_IMA_DISABLE_HTABLE option controls whether IMA logs are deduplicated based on the file's inode number. When CONFIG_IMA_DISABLE_HTABLE is disabled, duplicate IMA measurements will not be recorded in the IMA log, even if they have different inode numbers.

The message itself is just an informational message and does not indicate any problem with the system. However, it is recommended to enable CONFIG_IMA_DISABLE_HTABLE to ensure that duplicate IMA measurements are properly recorded in the IMA log. To enable it, you need to reconfigure and recompile the kernel with CONFIG_IMA_DISABLE_HTABLE set to 'y'.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
wmi_bus wmi_bus-PNP0C14:03: WQBC data block query control method not found
Mar 05 18:41:44 fedora37 kernel: wmi: Failed to parse WDG method

The message "wmi_bus wmi_bus-PNP0C14:03: WQBC data block query control method not found" in the kernel logs indicates that the wmi_bus driver is encountering an error while trying to query a data block for the device with the ACPI identifier "PNP0C14:03". Specifically, the driver is reporting that the "WQBC" (Write Query Block Control) method could not be found.

The message "wmi: Failed to parse WDG method" is related to the same error and indicates that the wmi driver failed to parse the "WDG" (Watchdog Timer Get) method for the device.

The WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation) is a standardized interface that provides a mechanism for communication between system firmware and the operating system. ACPI (Advanced Configuration and Power Interface) is a standard for power management and configuration of hardware devices.

The error could be caused by a problem with the ACPI implementation in the firmware or a bug in the wmi_bus driver. It could also be caused by a problem with the device itself.

To troubleshoot this issue, you can try the following steps:

    Check for any firmware or BIOS updates for your system. Firmware updates can sometimes fix ACPI-related issues with devices.

    Check for any driver updates for the affected device. Driver updates can sometimes fix driver-related issues with devices.

    Try disabling and re-enabling the affected device. This can sometimes reset the device and fix the issue.

    If the issue persists, try removing and re-installing the affected device. This can sometimes re-initialize the device and fix the issue.

If none of these steps resolve the issue, it may indicate a hardware problem with the device. In this case, you may need to contact the system manufacturer or a hardware technician for further assistance.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
kauditd_printk_skb: 19 callbacks suppressed

The message "kauditd_printk_skb: 19 callbacks suppressed" in the kernel logs indicates that the kernel's audit subsystem has detected a large number of audit records that could not be written to the kernel log due to a buffer overflow.

The audit subsystem is a kernel component that provides a framework for recording security-related events on the system, such as login attempts, file accesses, and process executions. When an audit event occurs, the subsystem generates an audit record that contains information about the event.

The message indicates that the audit subsystem has generated 19 audit records, but was unable to write them to the kernel log because the log buffer was full. The kernel log buffer is a fixed-size buffer in memory that contains the log messages generated by the kernel and kernel modules.

This message is just a warning and does not indicate a problem with the system. However, it does indicate that the audit subsystem is generating a large number of audit records and the log buffer is filling up quickly.

To resolve this issue, you can try increasing the size of the kernel log buffer or reducing the number of audit records generated by the audit subsystem. Alternatively, you can configure the audit subsystem to send audit records to a remote audit server instead of writing them to the kernel log.

To increase the size of the kernel log buffer, you can modify the kernel command line to include the "log_buf_len" parameter with a larger buffer size value. For example, you could add "log_buf_len=1M" to the kernel command line to set the log buffer size to 1 megabyte.

To reduce the number of audit records generated by the audit subsystem, you can adjust the audit rules that are defined in the "/etc/audit/audit.rules" file. The audit rules determine which events are audited and how they are logged. You can modify the rules to audit only the events that are necessary for your system and reduce the number of audit records generated.
nchembonuh67@gmail.com
 SysV service '/etc/rc.d/init.d/livesys' lacks a native systemd unit file. Automatically generating a unit file for compatibility. Please update package to include a native systemd unit file, in order to make it more safe >
Mar 05 23:42:00 fedora37 systemd-sysv-generator[1099]: SysV service '/etc/rc.d/init.d/livesys-late' lacks a native systemd unit file. Automatically generating a unit file for compatibility. Please update package to include a native systemd unit file, in order to make it more 

The message "SysV service '/etc/rc.d/init.d/livesys' lacks a native systemd unit file. Automatically generating a unit file for compatibility. Please update package to include a native systemd unit file, in order to make it more safe" in the kernel logs indicates that the systemd-sysv-generator component of systemd has detected a SysV-style service script for the "livesys" service and has automatically generated a systemd unit file for it.

SysV-style service scripts are traditional Unix-style scripts that are used to start, stop, and manage system services. In contrast, systemd is a modern system and service manager that is designed to provide improved performance, reliability, and flexibility.

In order to integrate SysV-style service scripts with systemd, the systemd-sysv-generator component of systemd automatically generates a systemd unit file for each SysV-style service script that it detects. This allows SysV-style services to be started, stopped, and managed using systemd commands.

However, the message also indicates that the package for the "livesys" service does not include a native systemd unit file. Native systemd unit files are designed specifically for use with systemd and provide improved integration and functionality compared to SysV-style service scripts.

The message suggests that the package should be updated to include a native systemd unit file for the "livesys" service in order to improve its safety and reliability.

In general, it is recommended to use native systemd unit files instead of SysV-style service scripts whenever possible, as systemd provides better integration with other system components and improved functionality. However, in some cases, it may be necessary to use SysV-style service scripts for compatibility with legacy software or system configurations.
ChatGPT Feb 13 Version. Free Research Preview. Our goal is to make AI systems more natural and safe to interact with. Your feedback will help us improve.
